---
title: Dong Yi - First time loving korean drama
layout: post
author: techidn
categories: Drama Korean
image: assets/images/DongYiWholeMainCasts.jpg
featured: true
---

Dong Yi is this long, epic drama. Admittedly most people feel a little scared to watch it because of its length but it's definitely worth the time spent to watch it.

The drama is definitely an eye opener. There are a lot of shocking moments in this drama where you go my dear god would people actually do that! They're appalling but it really gives you perspective on how seriously politics was taken back then. Also it gives great insight into the slave class and how they were treated in Korea. The drama does a great job of bringing light to that. On top of that the writers did an excellent job of weaving in romance where possible among the tragedies and mysteries of the palace.

Han Hyo Joo does an excellent job of portraying the righteous, just and beautiful Dong Yi who captures many a man's heart while she's on the quest for justice. Ji Jin Hee IS EXCELLENT. I don't know how else to say it. I'm actually a Bae Soo Bin fan so for Ji Jin Hee to steal the light from him in the drama was a pretty big deal for me. He's an excellent king! Very unlike the other kings I've seen in dramas who are portrayed very seriously and he makes it very easy to like him as a leader. Lee So Yeon is a scary woman...honestly her eyes scare me, she truly is the perfect choice for the seductress Lady Jang. Bae Soo Bin is sweet but not quite the main focus so I'll refrain from commenting on how awesome he looks with a beard.

The music behind the scenes is great and it suits the drama perfectly. Sometimes there's some pieces that when you know they come up something bad is going to happen and so I just started hating those ones but thats the only negative thing I can really say about that. Jang Nara is a great song.

And over all! It is honestly one of the best dramas I've ever seen.

Yes you should see it. Absolutely. You'd be a fool not to :) Even with it's 60 hour length!